---
layout: post
title: pyNLO
---

Here's a python tool for photonics called [pyNLO][pynlo]. Covers nonlinear optics modeling and seems pretty practical. In the following I'll be studying a bit of pyNLO, it's functions and of course several parts of nonlinear optics.

The example given in the [documentation][doc] is about __simulating the propagation of a 50 fs pulse through a nonlinear fiber using the split-step Fourier model (SSFM)__. Let me say that again.

	PROBLEM: Simulating the propagation of a 50 fs pulse through a nonlinear
	fiber using the split-step Fourier model (SSFM).	

Let me break down some concepts in this example and let's understand the problem.

According to [wikipedia][SSFM], SSFM is a numerical analysis term where it used to solve partial differential equations, for example  the nonlinear Schrödinger equation. So what I correlate through out this information is that we must have expressed the pulse through a nonlinear fiber *as a partial differential equation*. I don't know how to solve partial differential equations, but I'm just pretend that's okay and play along.

chatgpt emits that forming our partial differential eqaution is gonna involve the nonlinear Schrödinger equation (NLSE) with additional terms to account for the nonlinear effects where NLSE is indicated as a common model for pulse propogation in optical fibers. As we play along, I'll continue and specify the NLSE in the following.

		i∂A/∂z + β∂²A/2∂t² + γ∣A∣²A = 0

Here's exactly the time that I had the merge of quitting, cause it took too long to write this equation since I hadn't had the change to copy it and paste it. But let's move on.

*A __is the complex E field envelope of the pulse__*

*z __is the propogation distance along the fiber__*

*t __is time__*

*β __is group velocity dispersion parameter__*

*γ __is the nonlinear parameter related to the Kerr effect__*

Beside time, I have no idea what these means. I'll continue on the example code, and where these terms get in. I'd like to underline that the owner pointed out that the actual propogation of the pulse takes up just a few lines of code. My jobs is to analyize them and optionally not do that too poorly.  

{% highlight ruby %}
FWHM    = 0.050  # pulse duration (ps)
pulseWL = 1550   # pulse central wavelength (nm)
EPP     = 50e-12 # Energy per pulse (J)
GDD     = 0.0    # Group delay dispersion (ps^2)
TOD     = 0.0    # Third order dispersion (ps^3)

Window  = 10.0   # simulation window (ps)
Steps   = 100     # simulation steps
Points  = 2**13  # simulation points

beta2   = -120     # (ps^2/km)
beta3   = 0.00     # (ps^3/km)
beta4   = 0.005    # (ps^4/km)

Length  = 20    # length in mm

Alpha   = 0.0     # attentuation coefficient (dB/cm)
Gamma   = 1000    # Gamma (1/(W km)

fibWL   = pulseWL # Center WL of fiber (nm)

Raman   = True    # Enable Raman effect?
Steep   = True    # Enable self steepening?
{% endhighlight %}


Apparently 50 fs stands for 50 femtosecond pulse. Here's the statement of chatgpt about femtoseconds: *"A femtosecond is a unit of time equal to 10^-15 seconds, and a 50 fs pulse is an extremely short duration of time. In the context of optics, it's often used to describe ultrafast laser pulses."*












[SSFM]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Split-step_method
[doc]: https://pynlo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/readme_link.html#documentation
[one]: https://github.com/tomdbar/all-optical-neural-networks
[blog]: https://celineguler.github.io/myblog/2023/08/09/optical-neural-network.html
[article]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.12256
[onn]: https://github.com/JeremieMelo/pytorch-onn
[photo]: https://github.com/topics/photonics
[numpy]: numpy.org/doc/
[mat]: matplotlib.org/stable/tutorials/index
[panda]: pandas.pydata.org/docs/
[pynlo]: https://github.com/pyNLO/PyNLO/blob/master/src/examples/pulsed_dfg.py