---
layout: post
title:  "IOWN"
---

Here's [IOWN][iown]. Innovative Optical and Wireless Network. It basically guides networks and information processing infrastructure and they focus on [Optics][optics].

Not that I have the slightest idea, but photonics doesn't seem to have the potential to completely replace electronics since people denote photonics as an integration to quantum computing, and talk about the farthest point we can go beyond connecting computers using servers is to connect computer components (this is actually not a rough approach, light doesn't acting sanely when you try to manipulate it under some further scales, but with nanophotonics we can agree to disagree).

When we get to the theory of IOWN, it consists of three major technical fields.

* __All-Photonics Network__
* __Digital Twin Computing__
* __Cognitive Foundation__

So basically, a *digital twin is a virtual representation of a real-world object, system, or process*. Till this part of the definition I thought what kind of optical system they might want to create a digital form of? *It's created using data from sensors, simulations, and other sources to model the behavior and characteristics of the physical counterpart.* Turned out they are gonna create digital twins using optical systems. I not going to act bothered by not cutting this part where I am not even sure if the digital twin computing we're talking about is the one IOWN hosting. Anyway, let's continue. 


Photonics is expanding dramatically since the shift need of mainstream electronic where it fails to show higher performance with low power and deal with the exponential growth of in data. Optical communication is appreciated well enough since it provides the internet’s infrastructure, yet still promises more in data processing and data storage. Here's the numbers for required performance capasity.

*Electrons*:                                  

* __Excellent for information processing.__
* __Substantial interactions.__
* __High losses.__							   

*Photons*:

* __Excellent for communication of information.__
* __Interacting weakly, only in non-linear media.__
* __You guessed it__

Photons does not interact strongly as other particles, mostly they can pass through each other easily. Well exceptions exist such as non-linear optical effects, photon-photon scattering (basically two photons interact and scatter off each other due to the exchange of virtual particles like electrons in high-energy enivorments), QED vacuum fluctuations, high photon densities (photon-photon correlations) etc. (or not etc. not sure)




Several challanges come along with optical computing with it's massive paralellism.
IOWN is on how components of our devices can communicate and interact faster with IOWN 3.0.







 
[optics]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Optics
[iown]: https://www.rd.ntt/e/iown/